---
layout: post
title:  "Virtual DOM & DOM Manipulation"
author: cwu
categories: [ React, Fundamentals, front-end my love, study notes, new framework! ]
tags: [React, JS Fundamentals]
image: assets/images/study-series/3.jpg
description: "Just my study notes while diving into React."
featured: false
hidden: false
---

短篇 React 學習筆記。

## Virtual DOM

React creates a tree of custom objects, each representing a part of the DOM.

If we create a <span class="highlight-text">p</span> element inside a <span class="highlight-text">div</span>, React will create React.div object and React.p object.

React will then modify these objects quickly when needed <span class="highlight-text">(modifying only what's required)</span> rather than changing the real DOM.

Before it renders the component, React will determine what needs to be changed using the virtual DOM. Then React will get virtual DOM and real DOM in sync.

<span class="highlight-text">Virtual DOM = blueprint</span>

Virtual DOM contains the required details needed to construct the DOM. But it doesn't require all the heavy parts of the real DOM. Thus, making virtual DOM creation much faster than actual DOM.


## DOM Manipulation

DOM Manipulation = dynamically changing the content of web page.

<span class="highlight-text">Reconciliation</span> = changes made to the virtual DOM and then sync to the real DOM.

<span class="highlight-text">Diffing</span> = process when React figures out which objects has been changed

#### Process

1. React updates virtual DOM
2. States of virtual DOM will be compared (previous + updated), to identify what has been changed. This is done via <span class="highlight-text">Diffing Algorithm</span>.
3. Changed objects will get updated to the real DOM

#### Example of Diffing Algorithm

When <strong>root</strong> is changed, React will delete the tree and rebuild the entire tree.

````
// old
<div><App /></div>

// new
<span><App /></span>
````

When <strong>attribute</strong> is changed, React will only change the attribute.

````
// old
<div id="root"></div>

// new
<div id="boop"></div>
````

When <strong>new child element</strong> is added at the end of a list, React will simply add it to the list.

````
// old
<ul>
  <li>hi</li>
  <li>hi1</li>
</ul>

// new
<ul>
  <li>hi</li>
  <li>hi1</li>
  <li>hi2</li>
</ul>
````






